---
layout: default
title: Security
nav_order: 10
parent: Preparations
---
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD014 MD022 MD025 MD033 MD040 -->
# Security
{: .no_toc }

We'll learn a few simple actions to take to increase the security of your home internet.

---

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## Introduction

Most of your bitcoin operations will probably occur from the comfort and safety of your home and using your home internet connection.

The small router box that is stuck in the corner of your house is actually... a computer! And it is also the control centre of all your internet and network traffic. 

Before we dive into the node and bitcoin itself, it is useful to first take a few precautions to make your home internet connection as private and secure as possible.

In this section, you'll learn the minimum steps to take to make your hoe internet secure but will also have the option to dive much deeper and build your own DIY and FOSS router.

---

## Admin panel password

Your router has a web admin panel that can be accessed locally by typing the IP address of your router in a browser. Access to the admin panel is protected bu a username and password. However, in most cases the username is `admin` and the password is `admin`. If you never changed these login details, anyone who has access to your internat, like a guest in your house to whom you gave the WiFi password, could easily log in to your router, mess up with your internet and even get some information about all devices connected to your home internet. Therefore, it is important to change the login details with a strong password.

Most router uses the IP `192.168.1.1` but not all. You could also check at the back of your router, as the IP address might be inscribed on a stikcer. Otherwise, you can obtain your router local IP address from your computer using the terminal.

* Open a terminal window (`Ctrl`+`Alt`+`t`), display your computer's internet connections  and identify your router IP address (e.g. below, `192.168.0.1`)

  ```sh
  $ ip route
  > default via 192.168.0.1...
  > [...]
  ```

* Open your Firefox browser and type your IP address (e.g. `192.168.1.1`) in the address bar and press `Enter`. Your router login page should load.

* To log in:
  * Try the username `admin` and the password `admin`, or;
  * Check the sticker at the back of your router. the default login details might be on it. Sometimes only a password is required.
  * As a last resort, search on the web for the default login details for your router's brand and model

* Once you're logged in, search around for the command to change the login username and password. Replace the password with `Password [A]` Save and exit.

* Log in again to test your new login details. If anything goes wrong and you lock yourself out, you can reset your router to factory mode and log in again using the default login details.

Ok, so you now have protected your internet admin panel from any curious guests! We can now improve the secuirty of your WiFi iteself.

---

## WiFi security

We'll use the main WiFi network for all the bitcoin-related operations, while other devices and guests will be on a guest network. Therefore, we want the main network to be secured with a privacy-preserving name, a strong password and a strong security protocol.

* In your router admin panel, look for a WiFi or wireless section.
  * Your router might offer two network with different bandwidths (e.g., 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz), if you want to use them both, you'll have to change the settings for all of them!

### Name

Your WiFi name will appear in any device with WiFi turned on, even probably your neighbours computers! Therefore, it is important to select a name which does not give away any personal information.

* In the WiFi settings section, change the WiFi name with a privacy-preserving name, such as a random strings of charaters or words generated by your password manager.

### Password

* In the WiFi settings section, update your WiFi password with `Password [B]`

### Security protocol

When you're browsing Internet over the WiFi, malicious actors could record the transmitted data and possibly steal passwords and personal information. To protect against this, the data is encrypted using an encryption protocol. 

The security protocols have evolved over the years as the older ones became insecure. However, some routers are sometimes still shipped with an insecure default protocol.

It is important to check what protocol your router is using and if possible, update it to the best supported protocol.

You can read more about the different protocols in this [article](https://blog.pulsarsecurity.com/wifi-security-standards-and-protocols){:target="_blank"}.

* In the WiFi settings section, update the secuirty protocol by selecting the most secure one (e.g. WPA2-PSK) and unselecting or disabling the insecure ones (e.g., WEP, WPA-PSK, TKIP).

---

## Guest WiFi

Most routers allow to set up a guest network. A guest network is a separate WiFi network that has its own name and access password. But the most important characteristic of a guest network is that any devices connected to it can not communicate with any other devices connected on your network! So if a friend connects their laptop to your guest network, it would impossible for them to see your node on the main network.

* In the WiFi settings section, find a section related to guest network and enable it.
* Select a user-friendly name that can be easily shared with your family and guests.
* Select the same security protocl as for your main WiFi.
* Select a strong password that is easy to share with your family and guests (like a random string of 4-5 common names derived from your password manager).
* Save and exit.

Congrats! You now have a secure home internet with a network that can be dedicated to sensitive operations.

---

## Optional: DIY router

The router provided by your Internet service provider came preinstalled with a closed-source firmware. Instead, it is possible to install a FOSS software. Follow [this guide](https://bitcoinmagazine.com/guides/how-to-mine-bitcoin-privately-at-home#step-one-how-to-install-the-new-network-card) to create your own router on any computer you might have lying around.

<br /><br />

---

Next: [Desktop computer](desktop-computer.md)